.\" Copyright (c) Aisha Tammy <purrito@bsd.ac>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: November 25 2020 $
.Dt PURRITO 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm purrito
.Nd PurritoBin pastebin server
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm purrito
.Op Fl acdefghiklmnprstvwx
.Fl d Ar domain
.Op Fl a Ar slug_characters
.Op Fl c Ar public_cert_file
.Op Fl e Ar dhparams_file
.Op Fl f Ar index_file
.Op Fl g Ar slug_size
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl i Ar bind_ip
.Op Fl k Ar private_key_file
.Op Fl l
.Op Fl m Ar max_paste_size
.Op Fl n Ar server name
.Op Fl p Ar bind_port
.Op Fl r Ar max_retries
.Op Fl s Ar storage_directory
.Op Fl t
.Op Fl v Ar header_value
.Op Fl w Ar passphrase
.Op Fl x Ar header
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
server is a pastebin server for accepting files on multiple interfaces.
It is designed to have very low memory and CPU requirements and on
average requires 2-3 MB of RAM to run.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.It Fl d Ar domain
.Sy REQUIRED
.Pp
.Ar domain
that will be used as prefix of returned paste
.Pp
.Sy NOTE :
should be the full name, including trailing /
.Pp
e.g. https://bsd.ac/
.Pp
.It Fl a Ar slug_characters
.Sy DEFAULT : Dq 0123456789abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz
.Pp
Characters used to generate the slug.
.Pp
.It Fl c Ar public_cert_file
.Sy DEFAULT :
null
.Pp
Public key certificate to use if using SSL.
.Pp
.It Fl e Ar dhparams_file
.Sy DEFAULT :
null
.Pp
Diffie-Hellman prime file to use if using SSL.
.Pp
.It Fl f Ar index_file
.Sy DEFAULT : Dq index.html
.Pp
Top level index file.
Only used if the simple HTTP server,
.Fl t ,
is enabled.
.Pp
.It Fl g Ar slug_size
.Sy DEFAULT :
7
.Pp
Length of the randomly generated alpha-numeric slug
for the paste.
.Pp
.It Fl h
show help and exit
.Pp
.It Fl i Ar bind_ip
.Sy DEFAULT :
0.0.0.0, ::
.Pp
IP on which to listen for incoming connections.
Can be specified multiple times for multiple ips.
If more
.Ar bind_ip
options than
.Ar bind_port
options are specified, then the last
.Ar bind_port
option is used for all remaining
.Ar bind_ip
options.
.Pp
.It Fl k Ar private_key_file
.Sy DEFAULT :
null
.Pp
Private key certificate to use if using SSL.
.Pp
.It Fl l
Enable listening using an SSL server.
If enabled then the
.Fl k ,
.Fl c ,
.Fl n
options should also be specified,
.Fl e
is optional.
.Pp
.It Fl m Ar max_paste_size
.Sy DEFAULT :
65536 (64KB)
.Pp
Maximum paste size to accept, in BYTES.
.Pp
.It Fl n Ar server_name
.Sy DEFAULT :
null
.Pp
.Ar server_name
to be used if using SSL.
.Pp
.It Fl p Ar bind_port
.Sy DEFAULT :
42069
.Pp
Port on which to listen for connections.
Can be specified multiple times for multiple ports.
If more
.Ar bind_port
options than
.Ar bind_ip
options are specified, then the last
.Ar bind_ip
is used for all remaining
.Ar bind_port
options.
.Pp
.It Fl r Ar max_retries
.Sy DEFAULT :
5
.Pp
Maximum number of retries to generate an available unlocked slug,
in case of a pastebin with large number of pastes.
.Pp
.It Fl s Ar storage_directory
.Sy DEFAULT :
/var/www/purritobin
.Pp
Path to the
.Ar storage_directory
for storing the pastes.
.Pp
.Sy NOTE :
should exist prior to starting the server and should
be writable by the user running
.Nm .
.Pp
.It Fl t
Enable a simple HTTP server to serve the pastes.
.Pp
.Sy WARNING :
.Nm
is only optimized for receiving large paste, not
for serving them like an HTTP server.
It is recommended to use a proper web server
for serving large files.
.Pp
.It Fl v Ar header_value
.Sy DEFAULT :
null
.Pp
.Ar header_values
for corresponding
.Ar headers .
The values are read in order, with the first
.Ar header
matching the first
.Ar header_value .
.Pp
.It Fl w Ar passphrase
.Sy DEFAULT :
null
.Pp
.Ar passphrase
for unlocking the
.Ar private_key_file
file if it is locked.
.Pp
.It Fl x Ar header
.Sy DEFAULT :
null
.Pp
.Ar headers
for corresponding
.Ar header_values .
The values are read in order, with the first
.Ar header_value
matching the first
.Ar header .
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Run the
.Nm
server with the domain name set to
.Lk https://bsd.ac/
:
.Bd -literal
    $ purrito -d https://bsd.ac/
.Ed
.Pp
Run an SSL server with :
.Bd -literal
    $ purrito -d https://bsd.ac/ -l -n bsd.ac \\
        -c /etc/ssl/bsd.ac.crt -k /etc/ssl/private/bsd.ac.key
.Ed
.Pp
Run an SSL server, while listening on
.Ar 10.7.0.1:9876 ,
.Ar 192.168.1.2:9999 ,
.Ar 134.32.10.10:42069 ,
.Ar [2001:456:8ee4:4::1]:42069 ,
.Ar [2001:456:8ee4:4::2]:42069 ,
and also setting very lenient CORS attributes with :
.Bd -literal
    $ purrito -d https://bsd.ac/ -l -n bsd.ac \\
        -c /etc/ssl/bsd.ac.crt -k /etc/ssl/private/bsd.ac.key \\
        -i "10.7.0.1"            -p 9876  \\
        -i "192.168.1.2"         -p 9999  \\
        -i "134.32.10.10"        -p 42069 \\
        -i "2001:456:8ee4:4::1"           \\
        -i "2001:456:8ee4:4::2"           \\
        -x "Access-Control-Allow-Origin" -v "*"
.Ed
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Nm
logs to syslog with the
.Sy purritobin
identity, along with the
.Sy PID
of the server.
